Added Realtime glossary (#7327)
tokiwa-software/fuzion: doc/ref_manual/realtime_manual.adoc

// and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published
// by the Free Software Foundation, version 3 of the License.
//
// The Fuzion language implementation is distributed in the hope that it will be
// useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
// MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public
// License for more details.
//
// You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with The
// Fuzion language implementation.  If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
//
//
//
// -----------------------------------------------------------------------
//
//  Tokiwa Software GmbH, Germany
//
//  ASCIIdoc source of the Fuzion Realtime Manual
//
// -----------------------------------------------------------------------

= Fuzion Realtime
The Fuzion Team <info@tokiwa.software>
include::../../version.txt[]
:title-logo-image: image:../../assets/logo.svg[top=5%,align=center,pdfwidth=1.5cm]
:doctype: book
:description: Fuzion Realtime Manual
:sectanchors:
:url-repo: https://github.com/tokiwa-software/fuzion/
:sectnums:
:icons: font
:toc: macro

toc::[]

== About this Document

> This document is intended to provide help for the comprehension of Realtime systems in Fuzion.

Reviewer: Maybe just?
```suggestion
This document explains Fuzion's realtime systems.
```

== Glossary

[#jitter]

> ((Jitter)):: The variation in the timing of events in a realtime system. Lower jitter indicates more consistent performance.

Reviewer: It is unclear to me what consistent means in this context, needs to be defined.

[#task]
((Task)):: A unit of work that can be scheduled and executed in a realtime system.

[#event]
((Event)):: An occurrence that happens at a specific time in a realtime system.

[#period]
((Period)):: The time between two specific events in a realtime system. A period can itself contain and observe other events or periods.

[#jitter_period]
((Jitter Period)):: Compares the real release time of an event with the expected release time. The difference between these two times is the jitter period.

[#periodic_task]
((Periodic Task)):: A task that is executed at regular intervals, defined by its period.

[#sporadic_task]
((Sporadic Task)):: A task that is executed irregularly, with a minimum inter-arrival time between executions.

[#deadline]
((Deadline)):: The latest time by which a task must complete its execution to be considered successful.

[#response_time]
((Response Time)):: The time taken from the release of a task to its completion.

[#cycle]
((Cycle)):: Observes the spacing between two consecutive events in a realtime system, irrespective of schedule.

[#precision]

> ((Precision)):: How fast the observer runs, and therefore how small each mesured period is. This reduces the odds of observation data being lumped together in the same unit of time. So the shorter the timeframe, the better, but excessively short timeframes can lead to performance issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
((Precision)):: How often the observer runs, and therefore how small each measured period is. This reduces the odds of observation data being lumped together in the same unit of time. So the shorter the timeframe, the more precise, but excessively short timeframes can lead to performance issues.
```

[#affinity]
((Affinity)):: Restriction binding a thread to specific CPU cores.

[#fifo_scheduling]

> ((FIFO Scheduling)):: Real-time scheduling policy where highest-priority runnable thread runs until blocked or preempted.

Reviewer: I don't think that is correct. FIFO is first in, first out. I don't see where priority fits in here?

// by the Free Software Foundation, version 3 of the License.
//
// The Fuzion language implementation is distributed in the hope that it will be
// useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
// MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public
// License for more details.
//
// You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with The
// Fuzion language implementation.  If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
//
//
//
// -----------------------------------------------------------------------
//
//  Tokiwa Software GmbH, Germany
//
//  ASCIIdoc source of the Fuzion Realtime Manual
//
// -----------------------------------------------------------------------

= Fuzion Realtime
The Fuzion Team <info@tokiwa.software>
include::../../version.txt[]
:title-logo-image: image:../../assets/logo.svg[top=5%,align=center,pdfwidth=1.5cm]
:doctype: book
:description: Fuzion Realtime Manual
:sectanchors:
:url-repo: https://github.com/tokiwa-software/fuzion/
:sectnums:
:icons: font
:toc: macro

toc::[]

== About this Document
This document explains Fuzion's realtime systems.

== Glossary

[#jitter]

> ((Jitter)):: The variation in the timing of events in a realtime system. Low jitter indicates that events occur at predictable intervals, while high jitter indicates that events occur at irregular intervals.

Reviewer 2: This is not a rigorous enough definition. What kind of variation? What kind of events? Rather than giving an abstract example, give a concrete example with numbers.

[#task]
((Task)):: A unit of work that can be scheduled and executed in a realtime system.

[#event]
((Event)):: An occurrence that happens at a specific time in a realtime system.

[#period]

> ((Period)):: The time between two specific events in a realtime system. A period can itself contain and observe other events or periods.

Reviewer 2: How does a period "observe" an event?

[#jitter_period]

> ((Jitter Period)):: Compares the real release time of an event with the expected release time. The difference between these two times is the jitter period.

Reviewer 2: Period Jitter?

[#periodic_task]
((Periodic Task)):: A task that is executed at regular intervals, defined by its period.

[#sporadic_task]
((Sporadic Task)):: A task that is executed irregularly, with a minimum inter-arrival time between executions.

[#deadline]
((Deadline)):: The latest time by which a task must complete its execution to be considered successful.

[#response_time]
((Response Time)):: The time taken from the release of a task to its completion.

[#cycle]
((Cycle)):: Observes the spacing between two consecutive events in a realtime system, irrespective of schedule.

[#precision]

> ((Precision)):: How often the observer runs, and therefore how small each measured period is. This reduces the odds of observation data being lumped together in the same unit of time. So the shorter the timeframe, the more precise, but excessively short timeframes can lead to performance issues.

Reviewer 2: I do not understand what or who the observer is.

[#affinity]
((Affinity)):: Restriction binding a thread to specific CPU cores.

[#fifo_scheduling]
((FIFO Scheduling)):: First In First Out scheduling, where tasks are executed in the order they arrive.

[#priority_scheduling]

> ((Priority Scheduling)):: A scheduling algorithm where tasks are executed based on their priority levels.

Reviewer 2: this is not something exclusive, at least on the Linux model of `SCHED_FIFO` and `SCHED_RR`. in `SCHED_FIFO`, tasks are scheduled by both order and their priority.
